WORK EXPERIENCE
Data Engineer. Global Architecture Team @ Havas Media Group	May 2022 - Today
Orchestration and deployment of pipelines.
Development in Cloud Functions of a generic validation system for manual files according to specific rules. More than 40.000 files processed so far.
Design of the architecture and development of a whole monitoring system tracking running and planned processes in Google Workflows, executions of Cloud Functions, billing costs and infrastructure elements. More than 150 Google Cloud Projects are tracked every 5 minutes.
Development of a generic custom report and data export system in Cloud Functions.
Development of an entire pipeline to annotate images and videos using Google Vertex AI. More than 10.000 assets processed so far.
Schema and database modeling in BigQuery.
Migration of legacy platforms to Google Cloud Platform.
Design and encapsulation of user permissions and service accounts in BigQuery, Storage, Cloud Functions and Workflows.
Design and orchestration of BigQuery pipelines using Dataform.
Design and migration of pipelines in StreamSets.
Design of sequential and parallel data management processes in Google Workflows.
Code restructuring with a focus on performance.
Implementation of CI/CD deployment systems from GitLab to Google Cloud Platform.
Writing documentation and diagrams both in the implementation of specific solutions and in the explanation of resources, development rules and naming conventions.
Technical debt management.
Architecture design of deployments in GitLab using Workload Identity Federation and encapsulation of CI/CD components.
Reduction of operating costs by 45%.
Legacy codebase maintenance and refactoring of core code.

Data engineer. Internship @ Telefónica	Jun 2021 - May 2022
Creation of Cloud infrastructure for Big Data.
Development of ETL processes for massive data processing.
Optimisation of algorithms for distributed computing on PySpark and Hadoop.
Creation of Python libraries for use in data science algorithms.
Development of a web platform for analysis and visualization.
Development of documentation and process diagrams.
Multidisciplinary environment with mathematicians, physicists, telecom and software engineers.
Use of agile methodologies.

Full-Stack and Blockchain. Internship @ Technical University of Madrid	Oct 2020 - Dic 2020
Development of smart contracts in HyperLedger Fabric, all backend, API, frontend client and user authentication.
